---
layout: single
title:  "PIs"
permalink: /people/MPD/
categories: people, information
---


This AIPrN research training program (T32) at PVAMU is a cross-disciplinary, an inter-departmental, inter-college and inter-institutional program and will have multiple (3) PD/PIs. Thus, the three persons to serve as multiple program directors are Dr. Seungchan Kim, Dr. Janet Antwi, and Dr. Salma Musaad. The three program directors are strongly committed to the success of the trainees and will effectively coordinate with each other to ensure adequate mentoring and management that the program will require. They will together be responsible for the administration of the grant, scientific leadership, monitor trainees progress, supervise and manage recruitment and appointment of trainees, and monitor the progress and overall project accomplishments as well as responsible for all evaluations and progress reports.


- **Seungchan Kim, Ph.D.** (MPD; Computational Systems Biology, Machine Learning, Data Science) is a Chief Scientist and Executive Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and Director of CRI Center for Computational Systems Biology at the Prairie View A&M University (PVAMU).  Dr. Kim’s research interests include: 1) mathematical modeling of complex biological systems including gene regulatory networks, 2) development machine learning algorithms to analyze large-scale, high throughput multimodal data (transcriptomics, genomic and proteomic, clinical data), and 3) application of such computational methods to identify biomarkers and therapeutic targets.  Dr. Kim has a long history of engaging Ph.D. students and postdoctoral fellows in research projects, encouraging these students to present their work at research conferences, and publish in peer-reviewed journals. Dr. Kim will dedicate 10% effort towards this proposed AIPrN research training program, as an MPD, to oversee the project, in close collaboration with Dr. Antwi (Agriculture, Nutrition and Human Ecology Department, College of Agriculture and Human Science, Prairie View A&M University) and Dr. Musaad (Children’s Nutritional Research Center, Baylor College of Medicine).  In addition, Dr. Kim will mentor our trainee for their training in AI and ML, and their research in precision nutrition, leveraging his extensive experience in computational systems biology and bioinformatics research, including analyzing high throughput multi-omics data, biomarker discovery and computational modeling of complex biological systems, and strong track in mentoring post-doctoral fellows, Ph.D., M.S. and undergraduate students as the primary advisor.


- **Janet Antwi, Ph.D., RD, LD, ACUE** (MPD; Precision Nutrition) is an Assistant Professor in the Human Nutrition and Food Area of the College of Agriculture and Human Sciences at Prairie View A&M University, Texas. She is also a Registered, and Licensed Dietitian professional. She has a special training in obesity prevention and management certificate from the Commission on Dietetic Registration. She served as the Director of the Dietetic Internship program here at PVAMU. Dr. Antwi’s scientific background is in nutrition research for the prevention and management of obesity, type 2 diabetes, food insecurity, and HIV disease progression. Her current research areas are focused on nutrition interventions in early childhood obesity prevention, nutrition and COVID-19, precision nutrition in obesity and type 2 diabetes prevention and management, and produce prescription to combat food insecurity in obesity and type 2 diabetes. In the pathways to early childhood obesity prevention research, she has incorporated gut microbiome studies and machine learning to study the interactions with nutrition and generate algorithms for personalized meal planning and healthy dietary patterns. She has worked nationally and internationally in practice and research with hard-to-reach populations and underserved communities in Ghana, Florida, New York, Waller county in the U.S. and on PVAMU campus among children, and adults to conduct these scientific, social, and community-based research projects. Dr. Antwi has experience in training, mentoring, and supervising, undergraduate and masters students, and a postdoctoral research fellow in the research projects stated above in her laboratory as well as in the community. Besides the research activities, she also engages these students in grant writing, manuscript preparations, graduate school preparations, and career development activities. She serves as PI on both internal and external grants including federal ones from the USDA which required her administration of the grant and effective execution of research project activities. Dr. Antwi currently serves as the PI for a recently funded USDA/AFRI/REEU research training grant that targets underrepresented and disadvantaged students in nutrition, human sciences, healthy & kinesiology, early childhood education, and agricultural sciences to gain research experience in different pathways that can be integrated with nutrition science research to combat early childhood obesity. She has alongside her students published research articles on cardiometabolic risks, inflammation, and vitamin D effect on type 2 diabetes in minorities, college students’ nutrition knowledge and perception of type 2 diabetes risks, and lifestyle behaviors and self-rated health. She has presented these research findings also at conferences, seminars, and workshops. Dr. Antwi is a visiting member of the Postdoctoral Fellows Program with the Institute for Advancing Health through Agriculture (IHA). This is an initiative by the Texas A&M AgriLife Research and PVAMU to increase collaborations between AgriLife Research faculty with PVAMU faculty primary mentors to train postdoctoral research fellows in the areas of precision nutrition, responsive agriculture and healthy living to align agriculture and nutrition to improve human health and reduce chronic diseases. She serves on two academic advisory boards and one research advisory board that liaise with nutrition and dietetics practitioners and healthcare providers in several academic institutions, corporate organizations, and hospitals/clinics. She is also an Executive Committee member of the Research Dietetics Practice Group of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. She serves as an associate member, and a member of the Graduate Committee Faculty, and Undergraduate Research Council, respectively at PVAMU. Dr. Antwi will commit 10% of her time to co-lead with Drs. Kim and Musaad, direct and manage the AIPrN research training program at PVAMU. 


- **Salma Musaad, MD, Ph.D.** (MPD; Biostatistics and Obesity, Machine Learning in Health Disparities) is an Associate Professor of Pediatrics, Department of Pediatrics, Children’s Nutrition Research Center (CNRC) at Baylor College of Medicine (BCM).  She has a Ph.D. in Epidemiology and Biostatistics from the University of Cincinnati, Department of Environmental Health, College of Medicine, with 13+ years of experience conducting clinical research in academia and clinical research organizations (industry).  While working in industry (Kendle and Battelle), she worked with the study team to develop protocols and questionnaires, programmed and verified statistical tables, listings, figures, and analysis datasets, wrote (or reviewed) analysis plans, among other responsibilities.  During her time in the University of Illinois, she built the Illinois Biostatistics Core (currently called Illinois Biostatistics, Epidemiology, and Research Design Core) in the Institute for Health Sciences to provide consulting services.  She was also the biostatistician on an observational birth cohort study (Synergistic Theory and Research on Obesity and Nutrition Group (STRONG) Kids 2 (SK2). SK2 investigates how maternal feeding practices, microbiome and behavioral factors impact child and maternal diet during early life and contribute to body weight.  She currently serves as a biostatistician for various NIH projects at the Children’s Nutrition Research center (CNRC) such the NIH Rare Disease Clinical Research Network’s Brittle Bone Disorders Consortium, and Co-I in the area of child cognitive development (NIH UH3 OD023272).  She is now expanding her research into the use and development of ‘big data’ analytical methods to advance health equity in obesity research, to 1) enhance the rigor and equity of studies that investigate multi-level risk factors for obesity with emphasis on considering social determinants of health, including predictive machine learning algorithms, and 2) establish novel biostatistical methods for integrating high-dimensional data (e.g., ecological momentary assessments, wearables, gene expression signatures in response to nutrient intake and food components) with dietary, blood, microbiome, and social determinants of health data to develop more sensitive, culturally appropriate and equitable dietary recommendations and obesity prevention interventions. Dr. Musaad is a member of the Network of Minority Health Research Investigators and the inaugural cohort of the Fellowship in Leadership within the AI/ML Consortium to Advance Health Equity and Researcher Diversity (AIM-AHEAD) program.  Dr. Musaad will also serve as an MPD, oversee the project, and will be responsible for coordinating the administration of our trainee’s research experience at CNRC and mentoring them regarding application of AI/ML tools to answer questions pertaining to nutrient intake, feeding behaviors, and disparities in obesity and related health outcomes, diversity equity and inclusion issues, the design and analysis of future proposals and analysis of existing data (within CNRC and publicly available) to help advance their project objectives, manuscript development and presentations.
